---
title: Ego
tags: ruby, projects
excerpt: A ruby script to generate static HTML files from templates
---
aside. Ego is around 150 lines of code which makes it very easy to customise

Ego is a really tiny Ruby program to generate static HTML files. It generates these from a template and a textile document in a similar way to "Jekyll.":https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll Ego is slightly different because it is more based around pages and tags rather than blog posts.

Why would you want to generate static HTML? Well, faster page load speed, ability to test site locally, no security issues and no crazy server-side technology is needed.

You can view the code to this site "on GitHub.":https://github.com/JakeCoxon/ego Eventually I'll create an empty shell site as a base.

h1. Other features

* Layouts designed in Slim
* Template 'partials' support
* Posts written in Textile
* File are outputted in HTML so you can test them locally
* Support for pages and blog posts
* Any page can have a custom layout
* Tiny codebase so it's easy to customise
* Page heirarchy with tagging

h1. Tagging

Pages/posts can be tagged with another page to be included on that page. This means any page can be a tag listing itself, different to how a lot of content management systems have tag listings on a seperate URL (eg site.com/tags/projects). I think this is a better way to organise pages so you can use a page as a central hub of information.

h1. Meta Data

Pages + posts have optional meta data defined the same way as Jekyll.

aside. Meta data can be accessed in the layout using @meta[:key]@

bc. 
---
title: My title
tags: my, tags, etc
key: value
---

